# Time Capsule Entry for 2013-07-19

## Reverse Direction

Hey Sandy~June~,

Sandy~July~ here. I'm back with some advice for you, my man! No time to waste, so let's cut to the chase.

Living your life by beeminder doesn't work. Trust me, I've tried it. While beeminder works fantastically well for a small number of goals, it simply cannot scale. I believe this to be a fundamental problem in beeminder, that the reminder emails are simply not effective if you get 20 of them a day.

Instead what you should do is design a system in which you are able to keep track of *as many things as possible* in one beeminder goal. Currently I'm beeminding sin (generalizes to good behavior), progress (pomodoros and getting things done), output (object-level accomplishments) and upkeep (literally everything else in my life). 

Don't brute-force the problem - approach it with some tact and you will be happier for it.

I think this leads me to the brunt of my advice to you - tools are only as powerful as your ability to implement them. Beeminder is good because it causes itself to be urgent. Anki does not. I am considering hacking anki urgency into beeminder via my upkeep pattern. This is something to be investigated.

My current plan of attack for the upcoming month is to braindump as much of my mind as possible into blog form. It feels like there is huge value in extricating this from myself and sharing it with people. I am really interesting in seeing what a strong sense of momentum would feel like, and I suspect it would have high-intensity productivity associated with it.

Until next time.

## Forward Direction

Hi future-me. How's the weather out there har har har har.

You're always a hard man to write to, you know. Unless things go very badly wrong, you're going to be a lot smarter than I am, AND you're going to know everything I already know. What kind of advice can I give to someone like that? I suppose this is the same problem as my friend Kasparov's best chess move. You should review that parable if you haven't already - it's pretty wonderful from what I remember.

So, in a month you will be just about ready to leave town. I suspect that good advice would be to associate with the Vancouver Rationalists as much as possible before then; they have been fantastically influential so far. They are the source of your upkeeper system on beeminder, and of lots of other fun conversation over the weeks.

Another thing you should really investigate is the usefulness of upkeeper. To me it feels awesomely powerful, but I am still initially enthusiastic about it. If it continues being useful, consider making it an app. You will probably make a bob or two.

There seems to have been a substantial simplicity-shift in all of my effective metaprocesses. This is something to think about - what else are we making too complicated in life? Look for facets that don't really work right now, and I'll bet you dollars to donuts that the issue is undersimplification.

I think that's all I have for you. It's not much, but then again it's been a relatively slow month. Hopefully things will have picked up for you.

One love,
Sandy~past~